# Depth First Search (DFS)

Depth-First Search (DFS) is a way to explore all the nodes in a graph or tree by starting at a root (or starting node) and exploring as far as possible along each branch before backtracking. In simple terms, DFS goes deep into one path first and only backtracks when it reaches a dead end, making it good for finding paths or connected components in graphs.

## Step by Step Algorithm

**Step 1**: Start at the Starting Node

- **Mark the Starting Node as Visited**: Begin DFS from the specified start node. Mark this node as "visited" to avoid visiting it again.
- **Process the Node**: For example, print or record this node if we want to keep track of nodes visited in order.

**Step 2**: Explore Adjacent Nodes Recursively

- **Check Each Neighbor**: Look at each neighboring node connected to the current node.
- **Visit Unvisited Neighbor**s: For each neighbor, if it has not been visited, call DFS on that neighbor. This recursive call pushes us one step deeper down the current path.

**Step 3**: Continue Until All Nodes on the Path Are Visited

- **Recursive Calls Continue**: This continues, with DFS moving to each unvisited neighbor and marking it as visited, until reaching nodes with no unvisited neighbors (dead ends).
- **Backtrack**: Once all neighbors of a node are visited, the algorithm automatically returns (backtracks) to the previous node and continues from where it left off.

**Step 4**: End the Search

- **Return to the Start**: After all possible paths from the starting node have been explored, DFS completes.

## Implementation

### 1. Simple DFS

```java
public static void DFSRecursive(ArrayList<ArrayList<Integer>> adj, int startVertex, boolean[] visited) {

    //mark current node as visited and process it
    visited[startVertex] = true;
    System.out.println(startVertex);

    //recursively call for adjecent nodes that have not been visited
    for (int x : adj.get(startVertex)) {
        if (!visited[x]) {
            DFSRecursive(adj, x, visited);
        }
    }
}

public static void DFS(ArrayList<ArrayList<Integer>> adj, int startVertex, int vertices) {
    boolean[] visited = new boolean[vertices];
    DFSRecursive(adj, startVertex, visited);
}
```

### 2. DFS for disconnected graph

```java
// For traversing disconnected graphs only change the DFS function
public static void DFS(ArrayList<ArrayList<Integer>> adj, int vertices) {
    boolean[] visited = new boolean[vertices];

    //call the recursive function for every vertex instead of just the start vertex
    for (int i = 0; i < vertices; i++) {
        if (!visited[i]) {
            DFSRecursive(adj, i, visited);
        }
    }
}
```
