# Shortest distances from source (Unweighted graph)

To create an array where every index represents a vertex and value at that index represents the shortest distance of that vertex from the source

## Step by Step Algorithm

**Step 1**: Initialize Structures

- **Create visited Array**: Track which vertices have already been processed.- Create distance Array: Store the shortest distance from the source to each vertex, initializing all distances as zero.
- **Initialize a Queue**: Start with the source vertex in the queue for Breadth-First Search (BFS).

**Step 2**: Set Up the Source

- **Mark Source as Visited**: Indicate the source vertex is visited.
- **Set Source Distance to 0**: Set the distance of the source node to itself as zero.

**Step 3**: Process Each Vertex in Queue

- **While the Queue Is Not Empty**: Repeat until there are no more vertices to process.
- **Dequeue a Vertex**: Remove the front vertex from the queue.

**Step 4**: Explore Neighbors of the Current Vertex

- **Check Each Neighbor**: For each adjacent vertex of the current vertex:
  - **If the neighbor has not been visited**:
    - **Mark Neighbor as Visited**: Update the visited array for this neighbor.
    - **Enqueue the Neighbor**: Add the neighbor to the queue for further processing.
    - **Update Distance**: Set the neighbor’s distance as `distance[current] + 1` (since it’s one step further than the current vertex).

**Step 5**: Complete the Search and Return Distances

- **Continue Until Queue is Empty**: Repeat steps 6–8 until all reachable vertices are processed.
- **Return the distance Array**: Once done, distance contains the shortest path lengths from the source to each vertex.

## Implementation

```java
public static int[] shortestDistancesFromSource(ArrayList<ArrayList<Integer>> adj, int source, int vertices) {
    //initializations
    boolean[] visited = new boolean[vertices];
    int[] distance = new int[vertices];
    Queue<Integer> queue = new LinkedList<>();

    //enqueue source, mark it as visited and set its distance from source to 0
    queue.offer(source);
    visited[source] = true;
    distance[source] = 0;

    while (!queue.isEmpty()) {
        //dequeu a vertex
        int u = queue.poll();

        //process its adjecents if not visited
        for (int x : adj.get(u)) {
            if (!visited[x]) {
                visited[x] = true;
                queue.offer(x);
                distance[x] = distance[u] + 1;
            }
        }
    }
    return distance;
}
```
