# Maximum sum of k consecutive elements (Sliding Window)

The algorithm uses the Sliding Window Technique to find the maximum sum of any subarray of size k in a given array.

## Key Idea

Rather than calculating the sum for every window of size `k` from scratch (which is inefficient), we can slide the window across the array. As we move it one step forward, we `add the next element` and `remove the first element` of the previous window — keeping the sum updated efficiently.

## Step by Step Algorithm

**Step 1**: Initialize the First Window

- Calculate the sum of the first k elements.
- This represents the sum of the first window (subarray of size k).
- Store it as the current window sum and also the maximum sum.

**Step 2**: Start Sliding the Window

- Move the window forward one element at a time:
  - Add the next new element that enters the window.
  - Subtract the element that just moved out (i.e., the one at the beginning of the previous window).
  - This keeps the window size fixed at k, and the sum is updated in constant time.

**Step 3**: Track the Maximum

- After updating the sum for each new window, compare it with the current maximum sum found so far.
- If it’s larger, update the maximum.

**Step 4**: Return the Final Result

- After sliding through all possible windows, return the maximum sum found.

## Implementation

```java
public static int slidingWindow(int[] arr, int k) {
    int n = arr.length;
    int currentSum = 0;

    // calculate sum of window first time
    for (int i = 0; i < k; i++) {
        currentSum += arr[i];
    }
    int maxSum = Integer.MIN_VALUE;

    for (int i = k; i < n; i++) {
        currentSum = currentSum + arr[i] - arr[i - k];
        maxSum = Math.max(currentSum, maxSum);
    }
    return maxSum;
}
```
