# Longest Subarray with Given Sum

## Key Idea

In this approach, we use `HashMap` to store the prefix sum of subarrays starting from first element along with their index. The index are stored to later calculate the length of a subarray whose sum is equal to given sum.

## Step by Step Algorithm

**Step 1**: Initialize:

- A variable `prefixSum = 0` to keep the cumulative sum from the start of the array.
- A map to store the first index where each prefixSum value occurred.
- Set `map[0] = -1` to handle the case where a valid subarray starts at index 0.
- A variable `maxLength = 0` to track the maximum subarray length.

**Step 2**: Iterate through the array from index `0` to `n - 1`:

- Add the current element to `prefixSum`.
- Check if `prefixSum - k` exists in the map:
  - If yes, it means a previous prefix sum occurred such that the subarray from that point to the current index adds up to `k`.
  - Calculate the length of that subarray.
  - Update `maxLength` if this new length is longer.
- Update the map:
  - If the current `prefixSum` is not already in the map, store it with the current index.
  - This ensures that only the earliest index for a given prefix sum is stored (important for longest subarray).

**Step 3**: After the loop, return `maxLength` as the result.

## Note

We only store the **first occurrence** of a prefix sum because we want the **longest possible subarray**. If we overwrite it with a later occurrence, we might miss longer subarrays starting earlier.

## Implementation

```java
public int longestSubarray(int[] arr, int k) {
    int n = arr.length;
    int maxLength = 0;

    int prefixSum = 0;
    HashMap<Integer, Integer> map = new HashMap<>();
    map.put(prefixSum, -1);

    for(int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
        prefixSum += arr[i];

        if(map.containsKey(prefixSum - k)) {
            maxLength = Math.max(maxLength, i - map.get(prefixSum - k));
        }

        if(!map.containsKey(prefixSum)) {
            map.put(prefixSum, i);
        }
    }

    return maxLength;
}
```
