# LCA of a Binary Tree

LCA stands for **Least Common Ancestor**

## Step by Step Algorithm

**Step 1**: Base Case (Null Root)

- The first step is to check if the current node (`root`) is `null`. If the current node is `null`, return `null`. This is a base case indicating that we have either reached the end of a branch or the tree is empty.

**Step 2**: Check if Current Node is Either of the Two Target Nodes

- If the current node's data matches either of the target nodes (`n1` or `n2`), then this node is a potential ancestor of one of the nodes. Return this node.

**Step 3**: Search in Left Subtree

- Recursively call the LCA function on the left subtree of the current node. This returns either the LCA in the left subtree or `null` if neither of the target nodes is found there.

**Step 4**: Search in Right Subtree

- Similarly, recursively call the LCA function on the right subtree of the current node. This will return either the LCA in the right subtree or null.

**Step 5**: Both Left and Right Subtrees Found a Node

- After checking both subtrees, if both the left and right recursive calls return non-null values, it means that one target node was found in the left subtree and the other in the right subtree. Therefore, the current node (`root`) is the Lowest Common Ancestor of the two nodes. Return this node.

**Step 6**: Return the LCA from One Subtree

- If only one of the recursive calls (left or right) returns a non-null node, return that non-null node. This means that the LCA is located either entirely in the left or right subtree.

**Step 7**: End of Search

- If neither subtree contains the target nodes (both recursive calls return null), then the function returns null, indicating no common ancestor was found at this level.

## Implementation

```java
public static Node lca(Node root, int n1, int n2) {
    if (root == null)
        return null;

    if (root.data == n1 || root.data == n2) {
        return root;
    }

    Node lca1 = lca(root.left, n1, n2);
    Node lca2 = lca(root.right, n1, n2);

    if (lca1 != null && lca2 != null)
        return root;

    if (lca1 != null)
        return lca1;
    return lca2;
}
```
