# Allocate Minimum Pages

## Key Idea

- We start by picking the maximum value from the array, this would be out starting point - max pages that a student can read so that all books get read, if we were to pick other value, not all books would be read.
- We would keep on increasing the maximum pages until we get the minimum students required less than or equal to `k`.

We store values less than `k` as possible answer because:

- The `findStudentsRequired` function calculates the minimum studets required
  for a given pages limit per student
- If it's possible with fewer students, it might also be possible with exactly `k`,
- So we save the current answer and try a smaller value.

## Step by Step Algorithm

**Step 1**: Initial Checks:

- If `k > n` (more students than books), it's impossible to assign at least one book to each student → return `-1`.

**Step 2**: Determine Binary Search Range:

- **Low (start of search range)**: Maximum pages in a single book — max pages a student can read so that all books get read.
- **High (end of search range)**: Sum of all pages — this would be the total if one student gets all books.

**Step 3**: Binary Search Loop:

- While `low <= high`:
  - Find `mid` (candidate for the maximum pages per student).
  - Use helper function to check how minimum students required if no one reads more than mid pages.
  - If more than k students are needed → `mid` is too small, increase `low`.
  - If `k` or fewer students are enough → store `mid` as a potential answer, then try a smaller value (decrease high) to see if we can minimize further.

**Step 4**: Return the Final Answer:

- The minimum feasible maximum number of pages per student found through binary search.

### Helper Function

**Step 1**: Simulate assigning books to students such that no student reads more than max pages.

**Step 2**: Start with 1 student.

**Step 3**: Accumulate pages. If adding the next book exceeds max, allocate to the next student.

**Step 4**: Count and return how many students are needed for the given max.

## Implementation

```java
public static int findPages(int[] arr, int k) {
    int n = arr.length;
    if (k > n) return -1;

    int low = arr[0];
    int high = arr[0];
    for (int i = 1; i < n; i++) {
        low = Math.max(low, arr[i]);
        high += arr[i];
    }

    int answer = -1;

    while(low <= high) {
        int mid = (low + high) / 2;
        int studentsRequired = findStudentsRequired(arr, mid);
        if(studentsRequired > k) {
            low = mid + 1;
        }else {
            answer = mid;
            high = mid - 1;
        }
    }

    return answer;
}


public static int findStudentsRequired(int[] arr, int max) {
    int n = arr.length;
    int students = 1;
    int pages = 0;

    for(int i=0; i<n; i++) {
        if(pages + arr[i] <= max) {
            pages += arr[i];
        }else {
            students++;
            pages = arr[i];
        }
    }

    return students;
}
```
