# Search in Sorted Rotated Array

## Key Idea

Use a **modified binary search** to account for the rotation. In every step, determine **which half of the array is sorted**, then decide whether the key lies in that half. Narrow the search accordingly.

This ensures **logarithmic time complexity (O(log n))**, just like normal binary search.

## Step by Step Algorithm

**Step 1**: Initialize Pointers:

- Set low to the start of the array.
- Set high to the end of the array.

**Step 2**: Iterate While Search Range is Valid:

- While low is less than or equal to high, do the following:

**Step 3**: Calculate Midpoint:

- Find the middle index between low and high.

**Step 4**: Check for Match:

- If the key is at the mid index, return mid as the answer.

**Step 5**: Determine Sorted Half:

- Check if the left half (from low to mid) is sorted:
- If the element at mid is greater than or equal to the element at low, the left side is sorted.
- Otherwise, the right half (from mid to high) is sorted.

**Step 6**: Decide Where to Search Next:

- If the left half is sorted:

  - If the key lies within the left half (i.e., between low and mid), search the left half by updating high.
  - Otherwise, search the right half by updating low.

- If the right half is sorted:
  - If the key lies within the right half (i.e., between mid and high), search the right half by updating low.
  - Otherwise, search the left half by updating high.

**Step 7**: Key Not Found:

- If the loop ends without finding the key, return -1.

## Implementation

```java
public static int searchInSortedRotated(int[] arr, int key) {
    int n = arr.length;
    int low = 0;
    int high = n - 1;
    while (low <= high) {
        int mid = (low + high) / 2;
        if (arr[mid] == key)
            return mid;
        else if (arr[mid] >= arr[low]) {
            if (key >= arr[low] && key < arr[mid]) {
                high = mid - 1;
            } else {
                low = mid + 1;
            }
        } else {
            if (key <= arr[high] && key > arr[mid]) {
                low = mid + 1;
            } else {
                high = mid - 1;
            }
        }
    }

    return -1;
}
```
