# Deletion in BST

When deleting a node in a BST, there are three main scenarios to consider:

1. **The node to be deleted is a leaf node** (it has no children).
2. **The node to be deleted has one child** (it has either a left child or a right child).
3. **The node to be deleted has two children** (it has both a left child and a right child).

## Step by Step Algorithm

**Step 1**: Finding the Node to Delete

- Start from the root of the BST.
- Compare the value of the node to be deleted with the current node's value:
  - If the value is less than the current node's value, move to the left subtree and assign it to `root.left` since we will be modifying the left subtree.
  - If the value is greater than the current node's value, move to the right subtree and assign it to `root.right` since we will be modifying the right subtree.
  - If the value equals the current node's value, this is the node we want to delete.

**Step 2**: Deleting the Node

**Case 1: Node is a Leaf Node**

- If the node has no children (i.e., it’s a leaf node):
  - Simply remove the node by returning null.

**Case 2: Node has One Child**

- If the node has only one child:
  - Return the child node. This means the parent of the deleted node will now point directly to this child, effectively removing the deleted node from the tree.

**Case 3: Node has Two Children**

- If the node has two children:
  - Find the inorder successor (the smallest node in the right subtree):
    - The inorder successor will replace the value of the node to be deleted.
  - Delete the inorder successor node from the right subtree since it will now have a duplicate value in the BST and assign it to `root.right` since we will be modifying the right subtree.

## Implementation

```java
//Function to find out inorder successsor
public static Node successor(Node root) {
        Node current = root.right;
        while (current != null && current.left != null) {
            current = current.left;
        }
        return current;
    }

    public static Node delete(Node root, int value) {
        if (root == null)
            return null;

        if (root.data > value) {
            root.left = delete(root.left, value);
        } else if (root.data < value) {
            root.right = delete(root.right, value);
        } else {
            if (root.right == null) {
                return root.left;
            } else if (root.left == null) {
                return root.right;
            } else {
                Node successor = successor(root);
                root.data = successor.data;
                root.right = delete(root.right, successor.data);
            }
        }

        return root;

    }
```
