# Pair with given sum in BST

## Method 1: Using array

Initialize an array and store the numbers in a sorted order by doing inorder traversal and use two pointer approach

## Method 2: Using HashSet

**Step 1**: Initialize a Set
**Step 2**: Start In-Order Traversal

- In-order traversal is used here because it allows us to visit nodes in sorted order (smallest to largest) in a BST.

**Step 3**: Traverse Left subtree

- Begin by checking the left subtree. If any node in the left subtree finds a pair with the required sum, return `true` immediately.

**Step 4**: Check for pair

- For each node you visit, calculate the difference between the target sum and the node’s value: `difference = sum - current_node_value`.
- Check if this difference is already in the set:

  - If yes, it means we found two numbers that add up to the target sum (the current node’s value and the difference from the set). We return true.
  - If no, add the current node's value to the set and continue.

**Step 5**: Traverse Right Subtree

- If no pair was found in the left subtree or with the current node, proceed to the right subtree.
  - Again, if any node in the right subtree finds a pair with the required sum, return true.

**Step 6**: End Traversal

- If the entire tree is traversed without finding a pair, return false (meaning no such pair exists in the BST).

## Implementation

```java
static HashSet<Integer> set = new HashSet<>();

public static boolean findPair(Node root, int sum) {
    if (root == null)
        return false;

    //Check left subtree
    if (findPair(root.left, sum))
        return true;

    //Check current node
    if (set.contains(sum - root.data))
        return true;

    //Check right subtree
    if(findPair(root.right, sum))
        return true;

    return false;
}
```
